= Introduction

An updated version of Chaos, a turn based spectrum game from 1985.

See wikipedia for information about the original game:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chaos_(video_game)

===============================================================================

= Game overview

Two to eight wizards battle each other. None, some or all can be
computer controlled, with the others controlled by human players.

The battleground is a grid 15x10 squares, the play is turn based. Each
wizard casts spells, and moves his army around to attack other wizards
and their armies.

When a wizard is killed all his monsters disappear. The game is won
when only one wizard remains.

Some spells summon monsters to be part of the wizards army, some
upgrade the wizard to be tougher, some spells attack other wizards or
monsters. Different spells have different likelihoods of success.

Each monster has different strengths, some can fly, some can attack
from a distance.

================================================================================

= Important

This is a pre-alpha version. You can just about play it but there are
some minor things missing (e.g. the ui doesn't automatically update
properly, there is no line of sight calculation, and the computer
controlled opponents are a bit crap).

It is next to impossible to install.

You can try the original in an emulator:
http://www.worldofspectrum.org/infoseekid.cgi?id=0000894
http://www.worldofspectrum.org/emulators.html

Or to play a slick remake that runs in windows:
http://chaosgroove.wordpress.com/
which is better than this version.

See the INSTALL file for installation instructions, online is at
http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~jakewheat/chaos2010/trunk/annotate/head%3A/INSTALL

================================================================================

= Additional information

The project web site is
https://launchpad.net/chaos2010

You can download source/binaries from:
https://launchpad.net/chaos2010/+download

Mailing list:
TODO

The file 'development_guide' gives a quick intro to the source code if
you are interested in that sort of thing. (Online version:
http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~jakewheat/chaos2010/trunk/annotate/head%3A/development_guide
)

You can get the latest version of the source code by installing bzr
and using:
bzr branch lp:chaos2010

You can browse the source code online here:
http://bazaar.launchpad.net/~jakewheat/chaos2010/trunk/files

Trunk details and changelog:
https://code.launchpad.net/~jakewheat/chaos2010/trunk
